CLI :- COMMAND LINE INTERFACE

we use unnix command 

/ root ~ home
-(hyphen)character [flag]:- used to modify the command
commands 
 (1)pwd :- print working directory(folder)
 (2)cd :- change directory
 (3)ls :- used to display list of directory and files present within the directory
 (4)ls -a :- used to display list of directory and files present within the directory with hidden content
 (5)cd / :- it will redirect to the root 
 (6)cd ~ :- it will redirect to the home folder
 (7)open . :- it will open the directory in the file explorer
 (8)mkdir :- used to Create directory rules ;- here if we write folder name with space then it will create two folders for ex:- mkdir folder name(two folders are created) 
 (9)touch :- used to Create file any type of
 (10)rm :- used to delete the file 
 (11)rm * -rf :- used to delete all the files present in the directory
 (12)rmdir :- used to delete the directory
 (13)sudo command :- 
 (14)rm -rf :- used to delete the folder [this is used when one have multiple file or folder within it]
 (15)vi file_name:- opens the file in the vi text editor
      q! :- quit forecefully
      i! :- insert forecefully
      :w :- saves the changes within the file 
      Vi shortcuts
              $ vi <filename> — Open or edit a file.
              i — Switch to Insert mode.
              Esc — Switch to Command mode.
              :w — Save and continue editing.
              :wq or ZZ — Save and quit/exit vi.
              :q! — Quit vi and do not save changes.
              yy — Yank (copy) a line of text.
              p — Paste a line of yanked text below the current line
 (16)nano :-
 (17)cp :- copy file/folder
           syntax :-
               cp filename destination
 (18)mv :- remove file/folder
           syntax :-
               mv filename destination
(19)cat :- contanate/this command can be used for showing the binary content of the file
   ex:- cat ls 
       execute hone pr ye ls k sare content dikhaygi
        cp ls list
        ab isne ls file k content ko list m copy krdiya 
        ab agr mai list ko bhi execute
(20)head :- will display first line of the file
(21)tail :- will display last line of the file
(22) .sh extension is used for creating a shell file
     is file m mai kuch pre-coding command likh k rkhugi
     jisse mai ek hi baar mai bhot sari commands execute kr sku'
     if i want to execute a shell file 
     command will be:-
       ./scriptfilename.sh